# EXPERIENCE CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION WITH JENKINS | ANSIBLE | ARTIFACTORY | SONARQUBE | PHP

IMPORTANT NOTICE – This project has some initial theoretical concepts that must be well understood before moving on to the practical part. Please read it carefully as many times as needed to completely digest the most important and fundamental DevOps concepts. To successfully implement this project, it is crucial to grasp the importance of the entire CI/CD process, roles of each tool and success metrics – so we encourage you to thoroughly study the following theory until you feel comfortable explaining all the concepts (e.g., to your new junior colleague or during a job interview).
In previous projects, you have been deploying a tooling website directly into the MARKDOWN_HASH40d1b2d83998fabacb726e5bc3d22129MARKDOWNHASH directory on dev servers. Well, even though that worked fine, and we were able to access the website, it is not the best way to do it. Real world web application code written on [Java](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java(programming_language)), .NET or other compiled programming languages require a build stage to create an executable file. The executable file (e.g., jar file in case of Java) contains all the codes embedded, and the necessary library dependencies, which the application needs to run and work successfully.
Some other programs written languages such as PHP, JavaScript or Python work directly without being built into an executable file – these languages are called interpreted. That is why we could easily deploy the entire code from git into var/www/html and immediately the webserver was able to render the pages in a browser. However, it is not optimal to download code directly from Git onto our servers. There is a smarter way to package the entire application code, and track release versions. We can package the entire code and all its dependencies into an archive such as .tar.gz or .zip, so that it can be easily unpacked on a respective environment’s servers.
For a better understanding of the difference between compiled vs interpreted programming languages – read this short article.
In this project, you will understand and get hands on experience around the entire concept around CI/CD from applications perspective. To fully gain real expertise around this idea, it is best to see it in action across different programming languages and from the platform perspective too. From the application perspective, we will be focusing on PHP here; there are more projects ahead that are based on Java, Node.js, .Net and Python. By the time you start working on Terraform, Docker and Kubernetes projects, you will get to see the platform perspective of CI/CD in action.


## What is Continuous Integration?
In software engineering, Continuous Integration (CI) is a practice of merging all developers’ working copies to a shared mainline (e.g., Git Repository or some other version control system) several times per day. Frequent merges reduce chances of any conflicts in code and allow to run tests more often to avoid massive rework if something goes wrong. This principle can be formulated as Commit early, push often.
The general idea behind multiple commits is to avoid what is generally considered as Merge Hell or Integration hell. When a new developer joins a new project, he or she must create a copy of the main codebase by starting a new feature branch from the mainline to develop his own features (in some organization or team, this could be called a develop, main or master branch). If there are tens of developers working on the same project, they will all have their own branches created from mainline at different points in time. Once they make a copy of the repository it starts drifting away from the mainline with every new merge of other developers’ codes. If this lingers on for a very long time without reconciling the code, then this will cause a lot of code conflict or Merge Hell, as rightly said. Imagine such a hell from tens of developers or worse, hundreds. So, the best thing to do, is to continuously commit & push your code to the mainline. As many times as tens times per day. With this practice, you can avoid Merge Hell or Integration hell.
CI concept is not only about committing your code. There is a general workflow, let us start it…
    